on the screen you see a circle divided
into four quadrants each quadrant
represents a thinking style this model
was developed by Ned Herrmann one of the
world's foremost experts on thinking
styles it helps us see our differences
some of us have a thinking style that is
logical analytical while others prefer
to deal with details some of us are
exceptionally sensitive to the emotional
needs of others while some of us prefer
to deal with the big picture and
long-term planning why is it important
to understand thinking styles Ned
Herrmann tells a very funny story about
an impatient manager in one of his
seminars who blurted out what does the
brain have to do with management of
course it has everything to do with
managing but our culture has only
recently allowed the brain to be talked
about it was only ten twelve years ago
that I was admonished not to talk about
the brain at lunch not to talk about it
on company property and even asked
questions like Ned what does the brain
have to do with managing the Herrmann
brain dominance instrument is a
measuring tool it starts with the left
brain right brain theories that
developed during the 70s supplemented by
the triune brain theory that represents
the physiology of the brain as it has
evolved over the course of human history
and by combining those two concepts I've
created a four quadrant metaphoric model
that can be quantified in the form of a
profile the Herrmann brain dominance
instrument provides four quadrants
each one of which represents a
specialized cluster of mental activities
and in each specialized cluster we have
a preference I advise people to
understand their own creative potential
creativity is personal a boss a CEO
can't grant you creative space
you must take the initiative to claim it
to function creatively in it in order to
gain ownership of it
individuals can claim creative space
groups of individuals or teams can claim
creative space whole organizations can
claim creative space and recently in the
board room of the Bank of America in
Mexico City as I was describing those
three levels the CEO said and whole
corporations can claim their creative
space and he's absolutely right
and if you have a whole organization of
people who are claiming their creative
space you then unleash this enormous in
a motivation and capability
you